Runes second series doc (#140)
rsksmart/devportal: docs/04-resources/08-runes/airdrop/deploy.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Deploying the Airdrop Machine Smart Contract Using Remix IDE

> sidebar_label: Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Deploy Airdrop Machine
```

Author: Same with the setup comment

tags: [rsk, rootstock, resources, tutorials, runes, nft, Ethereum, dApps, smart contracts, airdrop]
description: "This guide will walk you through deploying the Airdrop Machine smart contract using Remix IDE. The Airdrop Machine is designed to distribute tokens across multiple addresses, supporting both standard and Merkle tree-based airdrops. 
"
---

> This section will walk you through deploying the Airdrop Machine smart contract using Remix IDE. The Airdrop Machine is designed to distribute tokens across multiple addresses, supporting both standard and Merkle tree-based airdrops. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will deploy the Airdrop Machine smart contract using Remix IDE. The Airdrop Machine is designed to distribute tokens across multiple addresses, supporting both standard and Merkle tree-based airdrops. 
```

Reviewer: Merkle tree was explained right? Link to the explanation

Author: Using the word `we`, means we are there with the readers which is not possible (which means we are deploying alongside them).
This is a first person pronoun we should generally be avoided  because its an unclear reference and readers dont know who `we` refers to.

Author: Second person pronoun `You` is preferred or left the way it is as it is not wrong.

By following these instructions, you'll learn how to clone the necessary repository, prepare the contracts, and deploy them in Remix IDE.

## **Step 1: Clone the Repository**

Clone the Airdrop template repository from the link below:
```
git clone https://github.com/rsksmart/airdrop-template.git
```

This repository contains all the smart contract code you need to deploy the Airdrop Machine. You’ll use this code to get the smart contract address required for your project.

> > Basic knowledge of deploying and testing smart contracts in Remix IDE is required. If you’re unfamiliar, please refer to the [Remix Quickstart Guide](https://dev.rootstock.io/developers/quickstart/remix/) for a detailed tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Basic knowledge of deploying and testing smart contracts in Remix IDE is required. If you’re unfamiliar, please refer to the [Remix Quickstart Guide](/developers/quickstart/remix/) for a detailed tutorial.
```
